# dOrg Proposal Creator and Builder Availability Calendar

## Personal Intro

Hi my name is Matthias Bakken (SleepyViking). My last employment was with Zipwhip in Seattle, WA as a Frontend Engineer. When my daughter was born I decided I didn't want to be away from my family any longer, so I left Seattle and went back to Thailand. Now I am working on projects here and there and adding tools to my toolbox. Before starting this project I didn't know typescript. dOrgJelli let me know that I should do the project in TypeScript, so I taught myself TypeScript in a few days and refactored the project. I love learning, I love building even more.

Things I've done (that aren't in private repos):

- [GitHub](https://github.com/MatthiasBakken)
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/Matthias-Bakken/)
- [Rick&Morty](https://rickandmorty-crappyfanpage.netlify.app/)

## Description

With this project I want to create something that can easily be turned into a functional finished web application that is able to be used by the dOrg to update current availability to reduce friction when finding the right individuals for the job. Also, there will be a proposal creator function that allows you to populate the proposal with as many builders as the job may need and when proposal is created it sends out communication about the proposal to each builder that was selected for the job. There are many other functionalities that can be built into this app and I see it as a very useful and heavily used tool once it is completed.

## Time

16 hours

## Components

[DummyData](src/dummy-data/builders-data.ts) - Built out some simple dummy data so you can visualize functionality and to run tests before having a working API
[BuilderAvailability](src/components/BuildersAvailability.tsx) - BuilderAvailability holds the Builders component and passes down props
[CreateProposal](src/components/CreateProposal.tsx) - Create Proposal allows the user to write out a description of the project, select the tech that is necessary to build it and then add builders from a list that is generated by their previous selection of skills needed. Once everything is filled out and selected, you can send a proposal that will email the builders a project outline and they can choose whether or not to accept it
[Builders](src/components/Builders.tsx) - Builders holds Frontend, Backend and Fullstack components and passes props down
[Frontend](src/components/Frontend.tsx) - Frontend holds the Builder component and passes props
[Backend](src/components/Backend.tsx) - Backend holds the Builder component and passes props
[Fullstack](src/components/Fullstack.tsx) - Fullstack holds the Builder component and passes props
[Builder](src/components/Builder.tsx) - Builder uses the props to display relevant information on the homepage and allows the user to learn more about each builder and their availability
[Menu](src/components/Menu.tsx) - Menu holds all menu options to allow for navigation
[Settings](not yet built) - N/A

## Closing Notes

This project is close to a functional app and won't require too much more on the frontend. There will need to be a minor refactor and then depending on the type of MVP we want to start with, this is a decent codebase to build off of. Here is a list of items needing to be completed and some optional features:

- There is some odd functionality when clicking the boxes in the Add Builder section of create proposal
- I didn't add the Other Skills into the search function. This is a couple minute fix and won't cause any problems
- I need to write tests to get coverage in current codebase, but was worried we would want to change more than I realize so I didn't bother with end-to-end as of yet
- Add a Builder portal in Settings that allows users to update their availability, skills, contact info and more
- Create APIs for necessary data flow
- Create slashpage for Login/Signup
- Allow communication in-app
- Add project tracker with visible acceptance/denied responses from builders that receive a project proposal
- And much more

# Getting Started with Create React App

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `yarn start`

Runs the app in the development mode.\
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.\
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `yarn test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.\
See the section about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.

### `yarn build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.\
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.\
Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.

### `yarn eject`

**Note: this is a one-way operation. Once you `eject`, you can’t go back!**

If you aren’t satisfied with the build tool and configuration choices, you can `eject` at any time. This command will remove the single build dependency from your project.

Instead, it will copy all the configuration files and the transitive dependencies (webpack, Babel, ESLint, etc) right into your project so you have full control over them. All of the commands except `eject` will still work, but they will point to the copied scripts so you can tweak them. At this point you’re on your own.

You don’t have to ever use `eject`. The curated feature set is suitable for small and middle deployments, and you shouldn’t feel obligated to use this feature. However we understand that this tool wouldn’t be useful if you couldn’t customize it when you are ready for it.

## Learn More

You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).
